navigatingthefrontend.mdx, before:

---
title: 'New file'
description: 'Description of your new file.'
---

## **Study Compass Frontend Developer Documentation**

Welcome to the Study Compass frontend documentation. This guide is designed to help developers navigate and understand the React-based frontend of the project. It will outline the key components, structure, and development workflow.

---

### **Overview**
The Study Compass frontend is built with **React** and styled using **SCSS**. The application is designed to deliver a seamless user experience for finding study spaces, managing preferences, and collaborating with friends.

- **Frontend Directory**: `study-compass/frontend`
- **Primary Tech Stack**:
  - React
  - SCSS
  - Context API for state management
  - WebSocket integration for real-time updates

---

### **Key Features**

#### **1. Context Management**
The frontend uses the Context API to manage global state, allowing components to share data efficiently.
- **AuthContext.js**: Manages user authentication state.
- **CacheContext.js**: Handles caching for API responses.
- **ErrorContext.js**: Tracks and manages application errors.
- **NotificationContext.js**: Centralizes notification handling.
- **ProfileCreationContext.js**: Facilitates the profile setup process.
- **WebSocketContext.js**: Integrates WebSocket connections for real-time updates.

#### **2. Routing**
The project uses `react-router-dom` for handling page navigation. Key routes include:
- `/`: Landing page.
- `/login`: User login.
- `/register`: User registration.
- `/profile`: Profile management.
- `/classroom`: Classroom-related functionality.

#### **3. Component Highlights**
The application’s UI is modular, with reusable components organized in the `components/` directory.

##### **Key Components**:
- **CalendarComponents/**:
  - `Calendar.jsx`: The primary calendar view.
  - `DayColumn.jsx`: Displays individual days within the calendar.
  - `MobileCalendar.jsx`: A mobile-friendly calendar interface.
- **Classroom/**:
  - `Classroom.jsx`: The main page for classroom details.
  - Subcomponents include `CheckedIn` for live check-ins and `RatingGraph` for visualizing classroom ratings.
- **SearchBar/**:
  - `SearchBar.jsx`: Provides users with a search interface for classrooms.
- **Popup/**:
  - `Popup.jsx`: Displays modal dialogs with animations and blackout functionality.
- **Analytics/**:
  - `Analytics.jsx`: A dashboard for viewing study metrics.

#### **4. Hooks**
Custom hooks simplify complex logic and promote reusability.
- **useAuth.js**: Provides authentication utilities.
- **useFetch.js**: Simplifies API calls.
- **useClickOutside.js**: Handles clicks outside an element for popups.
- **useWebSocket.js**: Manages WebSocket connections.
- **useGetAnalytics.js**: Fetches and processes analytics data.

#### **5. Assets and Styling**
- **Fonts**: Custom fonts (e.g., `Satoshi-Black.otf`) are stored in `assets/fonts.css`.
- **Icons and Images**: Organized in `assets/Icons` and `assets/Brand Image`.
- **SCSS Files**: Each component has a dedicated SCSS file for styling.

---

### **Frontend Directory Structure**

Below is an overview of the frontend directory structure:

```
frontend/
├── README.md
├── package.json
├── public/
│   ├── index.html
│   └── manifest.json
├── src/
│   ├── App.js
│   ├── App.css
│   ├── assets/
│   │   ├── Fonts/
│   │   └── Icons/
│   ├── components/
│   │   ├── CalendarComponents/
│   │   ├── Classroom/
│   │   ├── SearchBar/
│   │   └── Popup/
│   ├── context/
│   │   ├── AuthContext.js
│   │   ├── CacheContext.js
│   │   └── WebSocketContext.js
│   ├── hooks/
│   │   ├── useAuth.js
│   │   ├── useFetch.js
│   │   └── useWebSocket.js
│   ├── pages/
│   │   ├── Login.jsx
│   │   ├── Register.jsx
│   │   └── Classroom.jsx
│   └── utils/
│       └── postRequest.js
```

---

### **Running the Frontend Locally**

#### **Prerequisites**
- Ensure **Node.js** (v12 or higher) and **npm** are installed.

#### **Installation**
Navigate to the frontend directory and install dependencies:
```bash
cd frontend
npm install
```

#### **Starting the Development Server**
Run the following command to start the React development server:
```bash
npm start
```
This will launch the frontend on `http://localhost:3000`.

---

### **Development Tips**

#### **Working with Context**
Each context file in the `context/` directory exports a provider and a custom hook for easier integration.
Example:
```jsx
import { useAuth } from './context/AuthContext';

function Component() {
  const { user, login } = useAuth();

  return (
    <div>
      {user ? `Welcome, ${user.name}` : 'Please log in.'}
    </div>
  );
}
```

#### **Styling Best Practices**
- Each component has a dedicated SCSS file. Follow the BEM (Block Element Modifier) naming convention for class names.
- Example:
```scss
.Classroom {
  &__header {
    font-size: 1.5rem;
  }

  &__details {
    margin: 1rem 0;
  }
}
```

#### **Debugging Tips**
- Use the React Developer Tools extension for Chrome/Firefox to inspect component hierarchies and state.
- Enable Redux-like debugging for Context with middleware (if added).

---

### **Next Steps**
- **Explore Components**: Familiarize yourself with the modular components in the `components/` directory.
- **Check Contexts**: Review how state is managed with Context API.
- **Start Building**: Modify or add new features as needed.

For further details, refer to the full documentation in the `documentation/frontend/` directory or reach out to the project maintainer.

Commit message:

meridian rebrand, atlas documentation flush

navigatingthefrontend.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Frontend Development Guide'
description: 'Navigate and understand the Meridian React frontend architecture'
---

## **Meridian Frontend Developer Documentation**

Welcome to the Meridian frontend documentation. This guide is designed to help developers navigate and understand the React-based frontend of the project. It will outline the key components, structure, and development workflow.

---

### **Overview**
The Meridian frontend is built with **React** and styled using **SCSS**. The application is designed to deliver a seamless user experience for finding study spaces, managing preferences, collaborating with friends, and engaging with campus organizations.

- **Frontend Directory**: `Meridian/frontend`
- **Primary Tech Stack**:
  - React
  - SCSS
  - Context API for state management
  - WebSocket integration for real-time updates

---

### **Key Features**

#### **1. Context Management**
The frontend uses the Context API to manage global state, allowing components to share data efficiently.
- **AuthContext.js**: Manages user authentication state.
- **CacheContext.js**: Handles caching for API responses.
- **ErrorContext.js**: Tracks and manages application errors.
- **NotificationContext.js**: Centralizes notification handling.
- **ProfileCreationContext.js**: Facilitates the profile setup process.
- **WebSocketContext.js**: Integrates WebSocket connections for real-time updates.

#### **2. Routing**
The project uses `react-router-dom` for handling page navigation. Key routes include:
- `/`: Landing page.
- `/login`: User login.
- `/register`: User registration.
- `/profile`: Profile management.
- `/classroom`: Classroom-related functionality.

#### **3. Component Highlights**
The application’s UI is modular, with reusable components organized in the `components/` directory.

##### **Key Components**:
- **CalendarComponents/**:
  - `Calendar.jsx`: The primary calendar view.
  - `DayColumn.jsx`: Displays individual days within the calendar.
  - `MobileCalendar.jsx`: A mobile-friendly calendar interface.
- **Classroom/**:
  - `Classroom.jsx`: The main page for classroom details.
  - Subcomponents include `CheckedIn` for live check-ins and `RatingGraph` for visualizing classroom ratings.
- **SearchBar/**:
  - `SearchBar.jsx`: Provides users with a search interface for classrooms.
- **Popup/**:
  - `Popup.jsx`: Displays modal dialogs with animations and blackout functionality.
- **Analytics/**:
  - `Analytics.jsx`: A dashboard for viewing study metrics.

#### **4. Hooks**
Custom hooks simplify complex logic and promote reusability.
- **useAuth.js**: Provides authentication utilities.
- **useFetch.js**: Simplifies API calls.
- **useClickOutside.js**: Handles clicks outside an element for popups.
- **useWebSocket.js**: Manages WebSocket connections.
- **useGetAnalytics.js**: Fetches and processes analytics data.

#### **5. Assets and Styling**
- **Fonts**: Custom fonts (e.g., `Satoshi-Black.otf`) are stored in `assets/fonts.css`.
- **Icons and Images**: Organized in `assets/Icons` and `assets/Brand Image`.
- **SCSS Files**: Each component has a dedicated SCSS file for styling.

---

### **Frontend Directory Structure**

Below is an overview of the frontend directory structure:

```
frontend/
├── README.md
├── package.json
├── public/
│   ├── index.html
│   └── manifest.json
├── src/
│   ├── App.js
│   ├── App.css
│   ├── assets/
│   │   ├── Fonts/
│   │   └── Icons/
│   ├── components/
│   │   ├── CalendarComponents/
│   │   ├── Classroom/
│   │   ├── SearchBar/
│   │   └── Popup/
│   ├── context/
│   │   ├── AuthContext.js
│   │   ├── CacheContext.js
│   │   └── WebSocketContext.js
│   ├── hooks/
│   │   ├── useAuth.js
│   │   ├── useFetch.js
│   │   └── useWebSocket.js
│   ├── pages/
│   │   ├── Login.jsx
│   │   ├── Register.jsx
│   │   └── Classroom.jsx
│   └── utils/
│       └── postRequest.js
```

---

### **Running the Frontend Locally**

#### **Prerequisites**
- Ensure **Node.js** (v12 or higher) and **npm** are installed.

#### **Installation**
Navigate to the frontend directory and install dependencies:
```bash
cd frontend
npm install
```

#### **Starting the Development Server**
Run the following command to start the React development server:
```bash
npm start
```
This will launch the frontend on `http://localhost:3000`.

---

### **Development Tips**

#### **Working with Context**
Each context file in the `context/` directory exports a provider and a custom hook for easier integration.
Example:
```jsx
import { useAuth } from './context/AuthContext';

function Component() {
  const { user, login } = useAuth();

  return (
    <div>
      {user ? `Welcome, ${user.name}` : 'Please log in.'}
    </div>
  );
}
```

#### **Styling Best Practices**
- Each component has a dedicated SCSS file. Follow the BEM (Block Element Modifier) naming convention for class names.
- Example:
```scss
.Classroom {
  &__header {
    font-size: 1.5rem;
  }

  &__details {
    margin: 1rem 0;
  }
}
```

#### **Debugging Tips**
- Use the React Developer Tools extension for Chrome/Firefox to inspect component hierarchies and state.
- Enable Redux-like debugging for Context with middleware (if added).

---

### **Next Steps**
- **Explore Components**: Familiarize yourself with the modular components in the `components/` directory.
- **Check Contexts**: Review how state is managed with Context API.
- **Start Building**: Modify or add new features as needed.

For further details, refer to the full documentation in the `documentation/frontend/` directory or reach out to the project maintainer.
